doc: Add production app documentation (#51)
TheThingsIndustries/generic-node-docs: doc/content/applications/se-vanilla/_index.md

---
title: "Sensor Edition: vanilla application"
description: ""
weight: -2
distributions: null
---

{{% gnse %}} comes pre-programmed with a vanilla application that showcases the device functionality and capabilities.

The application leverages a combination of the on-board components such as LEDs, button, buzzer, accelerometer, secure element, temperature and humidity sensor.

<!--more-->

## Claiming your device

The vanilla application uses the on-board secure element to join the LoRaWAN network using over the air activation (OTAA) method.

> You can claim your device on the The Things Stack cloud by following this [guide](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/devices/device-claiming/claim-devices/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can claim your device on the The Things Stack cloud by following [this guide](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/devices/device-claiming/claim-devices/).
```

## Powering up your device

After claiming, you can power up the device using two standard AA batteries.

> If the device powers up correctly, you will see the red, green and blue LEDs blinking thus indicating successful boot-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the device powers up correctly, you will see the red, green and blue LEDs blinking thus indicating a successful boot-up.
```

## Joining the network

> The device will attempt to join LoRaWAN network using OTAA indicated by the blinking red led.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device will attempt to join the LoRaWAN network using OTAA indicated by the blinking red LED.
```

> When the device joins successfully, the buzzer will ring briefly the red LED will stop blinking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the device successfully joins, the buzzer will briefly ring and the red LED will stop blinking.
```

## Default uplinks and events

> After a successful join, the device will periodically transmit two types of messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a successful join, the device will periodically transmit two types of messages:
```

1. A heartbeat message on FPort 1 every 25 seconds

> 2. A Temperature and Humidity reading on FPort 2 every 1 minute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A temperature and humidity reading on FPort 2 every minute
```

> 2. A Temperature and Humidity reading on FPort 2 every 1 minute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A temperature and humidity reading on FPort 2 every minute
```

You can also press the button to transmit an uplink with the heartbeat message.

The device will blink the green LED with each successful uplink.

## Heartbeat

The heartbeat uplink message sent by the device on FPort 1 contains the device battery voltage and the firmware version.

## Temperature and Humidity

> The temperature and humidity uplink message sent on FPort 2 contains the temperature in Celsius and the humidity in percentage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The temperature and humidity uplink message sent on FPort 2 contains temperature in Celsius and relative humidity percentage.
```

## Accelerometer

The accelerometer is disabled by default and can be enabled via a downlink on FPort 3 to detect shake and free-fall events.
When an accelerometer event occurs (shake or free-fall), the device will transmit an uplink with the temperature and humidity readings.

> {{< note "The accelerometer should be disabled when it's not used to conserve energy" />}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note "The accelerometer should be disabled when it is not used to save energy." />}}
```

## Button

The button is enabled by default and can be disabled or enabled via a downlink on FPort 4.
When the button is enabled, pressing the button will send a heartbeat uplink message.

## Buzzer

> The buzzer is disabled by default can be enabled via a downlink on FPort 5.
> The buzzer can ring briefly in two tones, warning and danger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The buzzer is disabled by default and it can be enabled via a downlink on FPort 5.

The buzzer can briefly ring in two tones, indicating warning or danger.
```

## Blue LED

The blue LED is disabled by default and can be enabled via a downlink on FPort 6.

> This feature can be used to indicate that the device requires attention (battery change, reset, re-positioning, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This feature can be used to indicate that the device requires attention (battery change, reset, re-positioning, etc).
```
